federalist 16 the same subject continued
the insufficiency of the present
confederation to preserve the union
from the new york packet tuesday
december 4th
1787 hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
the tendency of the principle of
legislation for states or communities in
their political capacities
as it has been exemplified by the
experiment we have made of it
is equally attested by the events which
have befallen all other governments
of the confederate kind of which we have
any account in its exact proportion to
its prevalence in those systems
the confirmations of this fact will be
worthy of a distinct and particular
examination i shall contend myself with
barely observing here that of all the
confederacies of antiquity which history
has handed down to us
the lycian and the kian leagues as far
as their remain vestiges of them
appear to have been most free from the
fetters of that mistaken
principle and were accordingly those
which have best deserved and have most
liberally received the applauding
suffrages of political writers
this exceptional principle may as truly
as emphatically
be styled the parent of anarchy it has
been seen that delinquencies in the
members of the union
are its natural and necessary offspring
and that whenever they happen
the only constitutional remedy is force
and the immediate effect of the use of
it
civil war it remains to inquire how far
so odious an engine of government in its
application to us
would even be capable of answering its
end if there should not be a large army
constantly at the disposal of the
national government
it would either not be able to employ
force at all or when this could be done
it would amount to a war between parts
of the confederacy concerning the
infractions of a league
in which the strongest combination would
be most likely to prevail whether it
consisted of those who supported or
those who resisted the general authority
it would rarely happen that the
delinquency to be redressed would be
confined to a single member
and if there were more than one who had
neglected their duty similarity of
situation would induce them to unite for
common defense
independent of this motive of sympathy
if a large and
influential state should happen to be
the aggressing member
it would commonly have weight enough
with its neighbors to win over
some of them as associates to its cause
specious arguments of danger to the
common liberty
could easily be contrived plausible
excuses for the deficiency of the party
could without difficulty be invented to
alarm the apprehensions
inflame the passions and conciliate the
good will even of those states which
were not chargeable with any violation
or omission of duty
this would be the more likely to take
place as the delinquencies of the larger
members might be expected sometimes to
perceive from an ambitious premeditation
in their rulers
with a view to getting rid of all
external control upon their designs of
personal aggrandizement the better to
affect which it is presumable they would
tamper beforehand with leading
individuals in the adjacent states
if associates could not be found at home
recourse would be had to the aid of
foreign powers who would seldom be
disinclined
to encouraging the dissensions of a
confederacy from the firm union of which
they had so much to fear
when the sword is once drawn the
passions of men observe no bounds of
moderation
the suggestions of wounded pride the
instigations of irritated resentment
would be apt to carry the states against
which the arms of the union were exerted
to any extremes necessary to avenge the
affront or to avoid the disgrace of
submission
the first war of this kind would
probably terminate in a dissolution of
the union
this may be considered as the violent
death of the confederacy
its more natural death is what we now
seem to be on the point of experiencing
if the federal system
be not speedily renovated in a more
substantial form
it is not probable considering the
genius of this country
that the complying states would often be
inclined to support the authority of the
union by engaging in a war against the
non-complying states
they would always be more ready to
pursue the milder course of putting
themselves upon an equal footing with
the delinquent members by an
imitation of their example and guilt of
all would thus become the security of
all
our past experience has exhibited the
operation of this spirit in its full
light
there would in fact be an insuperable
difficulty in ascertaining when force
could with propriety be employed
in the article of pecuniary contribution
which would be the most usual source of
delinquency
it would often be impossible to decide
whether it had proceeded from
disinclination or inability
the pretense of the latter would always
be at hand and the case must be very
flagrant in which its fallacy could be
detected with sufficient certainty to
justify the harsh expedient of
compulsion
it is easy to see that this problem
alone as often as it should occur
would open a wide field for the exercise
of factious views
of partiality and of oppression in the
majority that happened to prevail in the
national council
it seems to require no pains to prove
that the states ought not to prefer a
national constitution
which could only be kept in motion by
the instrumentality of a large army
continually on foot to execute the
ordinary requisitions or decrees of the
government
and yet this is the plain alternative
involved by those who wish to deny it
the power of extending its operations to
individuals
such a scheme if practicable at all
would instantly degenerate into a
military despotism
but it will be found in every light
impracticable the resources of the union
would not be equal to the maintenance of
an
army considerable enough to confine the
larger states within the limits of their
duty
nor would the means ever be furnished of
forming such an army in the first
instance
whoever considers the populousness and
strength of several of these states
singly at the prison juncture
and looks forward to what they will
become even at the distance of half a
century will at once dismiss as idle and
visionary
any scheme which aims at regulating
their movements by laws to operate upon
them in their collective capacities and
to be executed by a coercion applicable
to them in the same capacities
a project of this kind is little less
romantic than the monster taming spirit
which is attributed to the fabulous
heroes and demigods of antiquity
even in those confederacies which have
been composed of members smaller than
many of our countries
the principle of legislation for
sovereign states supported by military
coercion has never been found effectual
it has rarely been attempted to be
employed but against the weaker members
and in most instances attempts to coerce
the refractory and disobedient have been
the signals of bloody wars
in which one half of the confederacy has
displayed its banners against the other
half
the result of these observations to an
intelligent mind must be clearly this
that if it be possible at any rate to
construct a federal government capable
of regulating the common concerns and
preserving the general tranquility
it must be founded as to the objects
committed to its care
upon the reverse of the principle
contended for by the opponents of the
proposed constitution
it must carry its agency to the persons
of the citizens
it must stand in need of no intermediate
legislations
but must itself be empowered to employ
the arm of the ordinary magistrate to
execute its own resolutions
the majesty of the national authority
must be manifested through the medium of
the courts of justice
the government of the union like that of
each state must be able to address
itself immediately to the hopes and
fears of individuals and to attract to
its support those passions which have
the strongest influence upon the human
heart
it must in short possess all the means
and have a right to resort to all the
methods of executing the powers with
which it is entrusted
that are possessed and exercised by the
government of the particular states
to this reasoning it may perhaps be
objected that if any state should be
disaffected to the authority of the
union
it could at any time obstruct the
execution of its laws
and bring the matter to the same issue
of force with the necessity of which the
opposite scheme is reproached
the possibility of this objection will
vanish the moment we advert to the
essential difference between a mere
non-compliance
and a direct and active resistance if
the interposition of the state
legislatures
be necessary to give effect to a measure
of the union they have only
not to act or to act evasively and the
measure is defeated
this neglect of duty may be disguised
under affected but unsubstantial
provisions so as not to appear and of
course not to excite any alarm in the
people for the safety of the
constitution
the state leaders may even make a merit
of their surreptitious invasions of it
on the ground of some temporary
convenience
exemption or advantage but if the
execution of the laws of the national
government should not require the
intervention of the state legislatures
if they were to pass into immediate
operation upon the citizens themselves
the particular governments could not
interrupt their progress without an open
and violent exertion
of an unconstitutional power no
omissions nor evasions would answer the
end
they would be obliged to act and in such
a manner as they would leave no doubt
that they had encroached on the national
rights
an experiment of this nature would
always be hazardous in the face of a
constitution in any degree competent to
its own defense
and of a people enlightened enough to
distinguish between a legal exercise and
an illegal usurpation of authority
the success of it would require not
merely a factious majority in the
legislature
but the concurrence of the courts of
justice and of the body of the people
if the judges were not embarked in a
conspiracy with the legislature
they would pronounce the resolutions of
such a majority to be contrary to the
supreme law of the land
unconstitutional and void if the people
were not tainted with the spirit of
their state representatives
they as the natural guardians of the
constitution would throw their weight
into the national scale and give it a
decided preponderance
in the contest attempts of this kind
would not often be made with levity or
rashness
because they could seldom be made
without danger to the authors unless in
cases of a tyrannical exercise of the
federal authority
if opposition to the national government
should arise from the disorderly conduct
of refractory or seditious individuals
it could be overcome by the same means
which are daily employed against the
same evil under the state governments
the magistracy being equally the
ministers of the law of the land
from whatever source it might emanate
would doubtless be as ready to guard the
national as the local regulations from
the inroads of private licentiousness
as to those partial commotions and
insurrections which sometimes disquiet
society
from the intrigues of an inconsiderable
faction or from sudden or occasional ill
humors that do not infect the great body
of the community
the general government could command
more extensive resources for the
suppression of disturbances of that kind
than would be in the power of any single
member and as to those mortal feuds
which
in certain conjectures spread a
conflagration through a whole nation
or through a very large proportion of it
proceeding either from weighty causes of
discontent given by the government
or from the contagion of some violent
popular paroxysm
they do not fall within any ordinary
rules of calculation
when they happen they commonly amount to
revolutions and dismemberments of empire
no form of government can always either
avoid or control them
it is in vain to hope to guard against
events too mighty for human foresight or
precaution
and it would be idle to object to a
government because it could not perform
impossibilities
publius